Sayali Deshpande
Work
About
Contact
Brief
Land Securities Group is the largest commercial property development and investment company in the United Kingdom, holding roughly £7.9 billion. Landsec aims to transform the Lewisham Shopping Centre into an experimental town centre. My team was tasked with designing ways for co‑creating value alongside the local community of Lewisham. The goal for the redevelopment is to embed new models of community development that foster creativity and participation.

Intervention & Impact

My Role
Collaborated with a team of five to dissect Landsec’s vision and deliver pathways for Landsec to increase participation and create community cohesion. Key contributions included creating the research protocol, fostering stakeholder relationships, performing ecosystem analysis, and visualising the operations and impact of our service intervention.

Methods & Skills Leveraged
Research Ops Management | Discovery Session Facilitation | User Journey Mapping | Service Blueprinting | Storyboarding | Value Proposition Mapping

Project Partners
Explored Landsec’s project vision, assessed Lewisham’s socio‑economic landscape, and identified improvement opportunities for youth charities and vulnerable youth through research and interviews.
We began with interviews of Landsec stakeholders and analysis of the project’s blueprints, identifying areas for intervention. Our research into Lewisham’s socio‑economic condition, combined with local resident and council interviews, highlighted the role of youth charities in addressing youth crime. Deep dives with charity leaders offered insights into their operations, challenges, and impact, further validated by shadowing a charity workshop. Recognising the charities’ transformative effect on Lewisham and its youth, we recommended amplifying their impact as part of Landsec’s redevelopment strategy. This led to the establishment of partnerships with three local charities for future collaborative efforts.

Snapshot of Research Synthesis
Landsec’s Key Goals
• Improve the perception of Lewisham in the community.
• Increase footfall at the new town centre.
• Boost engagement within the community.

Key Findings from Primary and Secondary Research
• Increasing youth crime rates. In 2021, 29% (and rising) of the crime rate in Lewisham was attributed to youth anti‑social behaviour.
• The youth are ignored, not anti‑social.
• There is a lack of public spaces to constructively engage the youth, especially those from vulnerable backgrounds.
• Charities lack support to cater to their children’s needs.
• Local youth charities aid children’s development but lack the resources to support them.
• Youth charity leaders have knowledge of best practices to support vulnerable young people but struggle to find solutions to internal business challenges, limiting their impact.

Key Challenges Faced by Lewisham’s Youth Charities
• Working in silos
• Insufficient funding
• Operational struggles

Area of Opportunity
To empower these youth charities and their workers by finding solutions to some of their most pressing business challenges, so they can focus their efforts on creating an even greater impact on vulnerable youth within Lewisham.

Theory of Change
We believe that if we help these youth charities amplify their ability to support vulnerable youth, then the youth will be steered away from a life of crime, thus building social cohesion and creating safer communities within Lewisham.

Prototyping & Workshops
We conducted various ideation exercises such as Crazy‑8s, Worst Idea, Storyboarding, and SCAMPER within the team and with the charity leaders. We designed low‑fidelity prototypes of our service propositions and quickly tested them with charity leaders and vulnerable youth to gain insights on successes and failures. Partnerships with youth charities allowed us to prototype and refine our direction based on real‑time feedback from our target audience.

Design Intervention
Created AmpUp, a non‑profit business consultancy that helps Lewisham youth charities improve their services for vulnerable young people by increasing revenue streams, expanding networks, providing visibility to their work, and accelerating their impact.

Designed the value exchanges and service architecture using various business and design tools. Once we prototyped our service architecture, we designed the value exchanges within the ecosystem and the service architecture using tools such as Journey Maps, Value Proposition Canvas, Service Blueprint, Service Value Map, and Social Innovation Canvas. These helped us dive deep into our service propositions to identify hurdles and challenges, future opportunities, and potential revenue streams.

Designed AmpUp’s digital and physical touch points to bring the service to life.

Where the town centre development may cause community dispersion, our proposal highlights a new way of urban development to help Landsec play a key role in building community cohesion, creating a safer community that develops collectively.

Outcomes & Impact
By amplifying the efforts of charities to support vulnerable youth, our service contributes to increasing social cohesion and community engagement.
The relationship our service fosters between Landsec and local youth charities will ensure that Landsec contributes to the community through participatory development.
